Update communicating.rst (#6178)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: docs/pyqgis_developer_cookbook/communicating.rst

Logging
=======

There are three different types of logging available in QGIS to log and save all the information about the execution of your code. Each has its specific output location. Please consider to use the correct way of logging for your purpose:

> * QgsMessageLog is for messages to communicate issues to the user who calls the script. The output of the QgsMessageLog is shown in the Log Messages Panel

Reviewer: I would shorten thisand remove "calls the script" since it's also for plugins and "user" sound very clear to me already.

> * QgsMessageLog is for messages to communicate issues to the user who calls the script. The output of the QgsMessageLog is shown in the Log Messages Panel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* QgsMessageLog is for messages to communicate issues to the usercript.
  The output of the QgsMessageLog is shown in the Log Messages Panel
```

> * QgsMessageLog is for messages to communicate issues to the user who calls the script. The output of the QgsMessageLog is shown in the Log Messages Panel

Author: Great idea!

* The python built in **logging** module is for debugging on the level of the QGIS Python API (PyQGIS). It is recommended for Python script developers that need to debug their python code, e.g. feature ids or geometries

> * QgsLogger is for messages for *QGIS internal* debugging / developers (i.e. you suspect something is triggered by some broken code). A developer version of QGIS is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* QgsLogger is for messages for *QGIS internal* debugging / developers (i.e. you suspect something is triggered by some broken code). Messages are only visible with developer versions of QGIS.
```

Logging
=======

There are three different types of logging available in QGIS to log and save all the information about the execution of your code. Each has its specific output location. Please consider to use the correct way of logging for your purpose:

> * QgsMessageLog is for messages to communicate issues to the user.

Reviewer 3: Can you bring back the :class: tag to qgsmessagelog and qgslogger? These add url to pyqgis doc.

  The output of the QgsMessageLog is shown in the Log Messages Panel.
* The python built in **logging** module is for debugging on the level of the QGIS Python API (PyQGIS). It is recommended for Python script developers that need to debug their python code, e.g. feature ids or geometries

> * QgsLogger is for messages for *QGIS internal* debugging / developers (i.e. you suspect something is triggered by some broken code). Messages are only visible with developer versions of QGIS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :class:`QgsLogger <qgis.core.QgsLogger>` is for messages for *QGIS internal* debugging / developers (i.e. you suspect something is triggered by some broken code). Messages are only visible with developer versions of QGIS.
```

  (1): Your plugin code might have some problems
  (2): Your plugin code has crashed!

.. note::

   You can see the output of the :class:`QgsMessageLog <qgis.core.QgsMessageLog>`
   in the :ref:`log_message_panel`

The python built in logging module
------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

  import logging
  formatter = '%(asctime)s - %(name)s - %(levelname)s - %(message)s'

>   logfilename='c:\\temp\\example.log'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  logfilename=r'c:\temp\example.log'
```

  (1): Your plugin code might have some problems
  (2): Your plugin code has crashed!

.. note::

   You can see the output of the :class:`QgsMessageLog <qgis.core.QgsMessageLog>`
   in the :ref:`log_message_panel`

The python built in logging module
------------------------------------

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 2: .. testcode:: communicating ?

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: python

```

  import logging
  formatter = '%(asctime)s - %(name)s - %(levelname)s - %(message)s'
  logfilename=r'c:\temp\example.log'
  logging.basicConfig(filename=logfilename, level=logging.DEBUG, format=formatter)
  logging.info("This logging info text goes into the file")
  logging.debug("This logging debug text goes into the file as well")

The basicConfig method configures the basic setup of the logging. In the above code the filename, logging level and the format are defined. The filename refers to where to write the logfile to, the logging level defines what levels to output and the format defines the format in which each message is output. 

> .. code-output:: communicating

Reviewer 2: .. testoutput:: communicating ??

> .. code-output:: communicating

Reviewer 3: code-block does not expect an output, so either it's removed, added as comments to the code-block oir the whole system is turned into test-code/output

  2020-10-08 13:14:42,998 - root - INFO - This logging text goes into the file
  2020-10-08 13:14:42,998 - root - DEBUG - This logging debug text goes into the file as well

> .. note::
>    If you want to erase the log file every time you execute your script you can do something like:

Reviewer 3: Not a note. Your speech is inline with previous example
```suggestion
If you want to erase the log file every time you execute your script you can do something like: 
```

> .. code-block:: python
>    if os.path.isfile(logfilename):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: python

   if os.path.isfile(logfilename):
```

		with open(logfilename, 'w') as file:
		   pass

.. note::

 Further resources on how to use the python logging facility are available at:
 * https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html
 * https://docs.python.org/3/howto/logging.html
 * https://docs.python.org/3/howto/logging-cookbook.html

> .. warning::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. warning::

```
